readme.md, before:

# Awesome IntelliJ [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
<div align="center">
    <img src="./banner.png">
    <i>A curated list of IntelliJ-based IDEs, plugins and resources for them.</i>
</div>
<br>

IntelliJ IDEA is an IDE for Java and Kotlin developers and platform for many other IDEs, official (e.g. RustRover or GoLand) and 3rd-party (e.g. Android Studio).

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.

## Contents

- [IntelliJ-based IDEs](#intellij-based-ides)
    - [Official](#official)
    - [Third-party](#third-party)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
    - [Language and framework support](#language-and-framework-support)
    - [Personalisation](#personalisation)
    - [Learning](#learning)
    - [Editor](#editor)
    - [Utilities](#utilities)
    - [Language packs](#language-packs)
- [Resources](#resources)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [Guides](#guides)


## IntelliJ-based IDEs

IDEs that are based on [IntelliJ Platform](https://www.jetbrains.com/opensource/idea).

### Official

Official IDEs by JetBrains.

- [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea) - IDE for Java and Kotlin developers.
- [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm) - IDE for Python developers and data scientists.
- [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm) - IDE for PHP developers.
- [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go) - IDE for Go developers.
- [Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider) - IDE for .NET and game developers.
- [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion) - IDE for C and C++ developers.
- [RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/rust) - IDE for Rust developers.
- [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm) - IDE for JavaScript and TypeScript developers.
- [RubyMine](https://www.jetbrains.com/ruby) - IDE for Ruby and Rails developers.
- [DataGrip](https://www.jetbrains.com/datagrip) - Tool for multiple databases.
- [Aqua](https://www.jetbrains.com/aqua) - IDE for test automation engineers.

### Third-party

IDEs by 3rd-party developers.

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio) - IDE for Android app development by Google.
- [Comma IDE](https://commaide.com) - The IDE for Raku.
- [Cursive](https://cursive-ide.com) - The Clojure(Script) IDE.

## Plugins

### Language and framework support

- [Scala](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/1347-scala) - Support of Scala language.
- [Dart](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6351-dart) - Support of Dart language.
- [BashSupport Pro](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13841-bashsupport-pro) - Bash, POSIX and Zsh support.
- [Ini](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6981-ini) - Support of .ini files.
- [Toml](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8195-toml) - Support of TOML language.
- [Rust](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22407-rust) - Support for Rust language.
- [Ideolog](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9746-ideolog) - Support of editing .log files.
- [Node.js](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6098-node-js) - Support of Node.js for all IDEs that support JS.
- [Flutter](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9212-flutter) - Support for developing Flutter applications.
- [Go](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9568-go) - Support of Go language.
- [Go Template](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10581-go-template) - Support for Go template engine.
- [TinyGo](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16915-tinygo) - Support for TinyGo compiler.
- [Makefile Language](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9333-makefile-language) - Support of GNU Make.
- [.env files](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9525--env-files) - Support of .env (dotenv) files.
- [ESLint](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7494-eslint) - ESLint integration.
- [JS Toolbox](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7353-js-toolbox) - Several tools for JavaScript development.
- [React Native Console](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9564-react-native-console) - Fully customizable plugin to run React Native commands.
- [Writerside](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/20158-writerside) - Author, preview, build, test, and publish your technical documentation right inside your favorite IDE.

### Personalisation

- [Extra Icons](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/11058-extra-icons) - Add large amount of new icons to tour IDE.

### Learning

- [JetBrains Academy](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10081-jetbrains-academy) - Turn on the free educational features in your IDE.

### Editor

- [Rainbow Brackets](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10080-rainbow-brackets) - Ranbowify brackets and indents.
- [IdeaVim](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/164-ideavim) - Vim engine support.
- [Which-Key](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/15976-which-key) - IdeaVim extension that displays available keybindings in a popup.
- [IdeaVim-Sneak](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/15348-ideavim-sneak) - Port of vim-sneak to IdeaVim.
- [IdeaVim-EasyMotion](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13360-ideavim-easymotion) - EasyMotion plugin emulation for IdeaVim.

### Utilities

- [Key Promoter X](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9792-key-promoter-x) - Learn essential shortcuts while you are working.
- [Randomness](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9836-randomness) - Insert random numbers, UUIDs, names, IP addresses, and much more.
- [String Manipulation](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/2162-string-manipulation) - Manipulate with strings.

### Language packs

Translate IDE to your language.

- [Chinese ​(Simplified)​ Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13710-chinese-simplified-language-pack----) - Translate your IDE to Chinese (simplified).
- [Japanese Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13964-japanese-language-pack------) - Translate your IDE to Japanse.
- [Korean Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13711-korean-language-pack------) - Translate your IDE to Korean.
- [Russian Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/26495-russian-language-pack--------) - Translate your IDE to Russian.
- [Spanish Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/24541-spanish-language-pack--paquete-de-idioma-espa-ol) - Translate your IDE to Spanish.
- [Deutsch ​(German)​ Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/24543-deutsch-german-language-pack--deutsches-sprachpaket) - Translate your IDE to German.
- [Portuguese Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/24542-portuguese-language-pack--pacote-de-idioma-portugu-s) - Translate your IDE to Portuguese.

## Resources

### Documentation

- [Getting Started with IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/getting-started.html) - Official documentation by JetBrains.
- [IdeaVim landing page](https://lp.jetbrains.com/ideavim) - Landing page of IdeaVim.

### Guides

#### Migrating

Easily migrate to IntelliJ-based IDEs from another IDE or editor.

- [Migrating from VS Code to IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/how-to-move-to-intellij-idea-from-vs-code.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to IntelliJ IDEA.
- [Migrating from Eclipse to IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/migrating-from-eclipse-to-intellij-idea.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from Eclipse to IntelliJ IDEA.
- [Migrating from NetBeans to IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/netbeans.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from NetBeans to IntelliJ IDEA.
- [Migrating from text editors to PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/migrating-from-text-editors.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from text editors to PyCharm.
- [Migrating from VS Code to PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/migrating-from-vsc-to-pycharm.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to PyCharm.
- [Migrating from VS Code to RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rust/how-to-move-to-rustrover-from-vs-code.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to RustRover.
- [Migrating from IntelliJ-based IDE to RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rust/how-to-move-to-rustrover-from-another-jetbrains-ide.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from another IntelliJ-based IDE to RustRover.
- [Migrating from VS Code to GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/go/migrating-from-visual-studio-code-to-goland.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to GoLand.

Commit message:

feat: add Diff / Patch File Support plugin

readme.md, after:

# Awesome IntelliJ [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
<div align="center">
    <img src="./banner.png">
    <i>A curated list of IntelliJ-based IDEs, plugins and resources for them.</i>
</div>
<br>

IntelliJ IDEA is an IDE for Java and Kotlin developers and platform for many other IDEs, official (e.g. RustRover or GoLand) and 3rd-party (e.g. Android Studio).

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.

## Contents

- [IntelliJ-based IDEs](#intellij-based-ides)
    - [Official](#official)
    - [Third-party](#third-party)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
    - [Language and framework support](#language-and-framework-support)
    - [Personalisation](#personalisation)
    - [Learning](#learning)
    - [Editor](#editor)
    - [Utilities](#utilities)
    - [Language packs](#language-packs)
- [Resources](#resources)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [Guides](#guides)


## IntelliJ-based IDEs

IDEs that are based on [IntelliJ Platform](https://www.jetbrains.com/opensource/idea).

### Official

Official IDEs by JetBrains.

- [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea) - IDE for Java and Kotlin developers.
- [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm) - IDE for Python developers and data scientists.
- [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm) - IDE for PHP developers.
- [GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/go) - IDE for Go developers.
- [Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider) - IDE for .NET and game developers.
- [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion) - IDE for C and C++ developers.
- [RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/rust) - IDE for Rust developers.
- [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm) - IDE for JavaScript and TypeScript developers.
- [RubyMine](https://www.jetbrains.com/ruby) - IDE for Ruby and Rails developers.
- [DataGrip](https://www.jetbrains.com/datagrip) - Tool for multiple databases.
- [Aqua](https://www.jetbrains.com/aqua) - IDE for test automation engineers.

### Third-party

IDEs by 3rd-party developers.

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio) - IDE for Android app development by Google.
- [Comma IDE](https://commaide.com) - The IDE for Raku.
- [Cursive](https://cursive-ide.com) - The Clojure(Script) IDE.

## Plugins

### Language and framework support

- [Scala](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/1347-scala) - Support of Scala language.
- [Dart](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6351-dart) - Support of Dart language.
- [BashSupport Pro](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13841-bashsupport-pro) - Bash, POSIX and Zsh support.
- [Ini](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6981-ini) - Support of .ini files.
- [Toml](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8195-toml) - Support of TOML language.
- [Rust](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22407-rust) - Support for Rust language.
- [Ideolog](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9746-ideolog) - Support of editing .log files.
- [Node.js](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6098-node-js) - Support of Node.js for all IDEs that support JS.
- [Flutter](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9212-flutter) - Support for developing Flutter applications.
- [Go](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9568-go) - Support of Go language.
- [Go Template](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10581-go-template) - Support for Go template engine.
- [TinyGo](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16915-tinygo) - Support for TinyGo compiler.
- [Makefile Language](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9333-makefile-language) - Support of GNU Make.
- [.env files](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9525--env-files) - Support of .env (dotenv) files.
- [ESLint](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7494-eslint) - ESLint integration.
- [JS Toolbox](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7353-js-toolbox) - Several tools for JavaScript development.
- [React Native Console](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9564-react-native-console) - Fully customizable plugin to run React Native commands.
- [Writerside](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/20158-writerside) - Author, preview, build, test, and publish your technical documentation right inside your favorite IDE.
- [Diff / Patch File Support](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/18612-diff--patch-file-support) - Syntax highlighting for .diff files and .patch files.

### Personalisation

- [Extra Icons](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/11058-extra-icons) - Add large amount of new icons to tour IDE.

### Learning

- [JetBrains Academy](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10081-jetbrains-academy) - Turn on the free educational features in your IDE.

### Editor

- [Rainbow Brackets](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10080-rainbow-brackets) - Ranbowify brackets and indents.
- [IdeaVim](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/164-ideavim) - Vim engine support.
- [Which-Key](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/15976-which-key) - IdeaVim extension that displays available keybindings in a popup.
- [IdeaVim-Sneak](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/15348-ideavim-sneak) - Port of vim-sneak to IdeaVim.
- [IdeaVim-EasyMotion](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13360-ideavim-easymotion) - EasyMotion plugin emulation for IdeaVim.

### Utilities

- [Key Promoter X](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9792-key-promoter-x) - Learn essential shortcuts while you are working.
- [Randomness](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9836-randomness) - Insert random numbers, UUIDs, names, IP addresses, and much more.
- [String Manipulation](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/2162-string-manipulation) - Manipulate with strings.

### Language packs

Translate IDE to your language.

- [Chinese ​(Simplified)​ Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13710-chinese-simplified-language-pack----) - Translate your IDE to Chinese (simplified).
- [Japanese Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13964-japanese-language-pack------) - Translate your IDE to Japanse.
- [Korean Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13711-korean-language-pack------) - Translate your IDE to Korean.
- [Russian Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/26495-russian-language-pack--------) - Translate your IDE to Russian.
- [Spanish Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/24541-spanish-language-pack--paquete-de-idioma-espa-ol) - Translate your IDE to Spanish.
- [Deutsch ​(German)​ Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/24543-deutsch-german-language-pack--deutsches-sprachpaket) - Translate your IDE to German.
- [Portuguese Language Pack](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/24542-portuguese-language-pack--pacote-de-idioma-portugu-s) - Translate your IDE to Portuguese.

## Resources

### Documentation

- [Getting Started with IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/getting-started.html) - Official documentation by JetBrains.
- [IdeaVim landing page](https://lp.jetbrains.com/ideavim) - Landing page of IdeaVim.

### Guides

#### Migrating

Easily migrate to IntelliJ-based IDEs from another IDE or editor.

- [Migrating from VS Code to IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/how-to-move-to-intellij-idea-from-vs-code.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to IntelliJ IDEA.
- [Migrating from Eclipse to IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/migrating-from-eclipse-to-intellij-idea.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from Eclipse to IntelliJ IDEA.
- [Migrating from NetBeans to IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/netbeans.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from NetBeans to IntelliJ IDEA.
- [Migrating from text editors to PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/migrating-from-text-editors.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from text editors to PyCharm.
- [Migrating from VS Code to PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/migrating-from-vsc-to-pycharm.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to PyCharm.
- [Migrating from VS Code to RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rust/how-to-move-to-rustrover-from-vs-code.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to RustRover.
- [Migrating from IntelliJ-based IDE to RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rust/how-to-move-to-rustrover-from-another-jetbrains-ide.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from another IntelliJ-based IDE to RustRover.
- [Migrating from VS Code to GoLand](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/go/migrating-from-visual-studio-code-to-goland.html) - Offical guide about how to migrate from VS Code to GoLand.
